---
layout: post
title: "Erb And Bind"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}
# Erb & Bind
Lately I've been playing around with [Erb](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/erb/rdoc/classes/ERB.html), the ruby templating system. Although I think it falls way short on the functionality of Template Toolkit or other more mature template systems, its elegance is derived from it's simplicity.
###Erb
First a little background, I cut my teeth with Template Toolkit, which still is one of the most powerful template systems created. Erb, although not nearly as feature rich, is the (as far as I understand it) official template engine used by [Rails](http://www.rubyonrails.org) and other Ruby frameworks. How Erb works is simple. You create a template file, which in my case, is a file with HTML mark up. Within the template you can run ruby code and expressions. The tag mark up is pretty simple to understand, if you want to run ruby code you just enclose it in `<=%%=print 'Hello World' %%>`. So I banged out some CSS, HTML, along with a ruby script utilizing [Blue Cloth](http://www.deveiate.org/projects/BlueCloth/) to parse my [markdown.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) Unfortunately Erb has no native import function, which is highly useful if you create a wrapper template and wish to import additional templates. An example would be:
`<%= import('articles.html') %>`

Import is just a method in an object that I passed to my Erb object. Articles.html is a listing of articles (so far two) that is included into my html template.  In fact I have an initialized object called Page which is where the "import" method called in my template lives. This is how class Page looks:

    class Page
        def initialize(template_path)
            @template_path = template_path
        end
        def import (file_name)
            return File.new(@template_path + file_name).read
        end
        def get_binding
          return binding()
        end
    end


###Binding Object
Now to the nitty gritty, binding... When one looks at the Page class, there is a method called get_binding that just returns binding(). Binding() is a kernel object which supplies context for methods like eval. In order to make methods available to be called from within your template you have to pass a "binding" object. This binding magic initially confused me, but with a little digging, I think I may have gotten to the point where I can describe it. This may make further sense with more examples, here is how I setup my template object and pass the binding object.

    page = Page.new('./templates/')
    rhtml = ERB.new(template)
    print cgi.header
    rhtml.run(page.get_binding)


Binding is a kernel object (Kernel.binding) that returns bindings (or context) when called. This this often used in conjunction with the eval method. In fact if you were to scour the source code for Erb you would send at the very end that eval is called along with the binding method. An example of binding/eval would be the following:

    class Test
        def initialize
            @test1 = 'test2'
        end
        def test_method
            return 'example 1'
        end
        def get_bind
            return binding()
        end
    end
    def test_method
        return 'example 2'
    end
    test_obj = Test.new()
    result = eval("test_method()",Test.binding) # Returns "example 1"
    puts results
    result = eval ("test_method()") # Returns "example 2"
    puts result


Notice that eval takes a second argument, and this second argument is for the Binding object. This object helps establish context for which method is going to be called. The key to this example is what eval returns. With context set to use Test.binding it executes the test_method within the context of Test.

That's a wrap, I hope someone may stumble upon this and perhaps find it interesting.

Cheers!