---
layout: post
title: "Blog Revival"
description: "2016 yolo"
category: programming
tags: [Go Golang Blogging Books Writing 2016]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Resolutions

As the weeks of 2015 were coming to a close I found myself thinking "Gee,
whatever happened to my blog?". Well, it's still here, perhaps a bit dusty,
neglected, and full of a ridiculous amount of cobwebs. This sad and
pathetic little corner of the web hasn't received much love; personally I
find it highly embarrassing.

So this year, I decided to do something about it. Perhaps being a little
impetuous I tweeted, "I plan on blogging 52 times in 2016." (Words are
cheap and easy!) That's right - one blog entry per week - all year! Can
I do this? Well, my social media cachet is now officially on the line!

My sincere hope is the content will be fresh, interesting, and hopefully
informative. I have a myriad of subject matters which are stewing around
inside my noggin which begging to be roused into words.

### But what would I have to talk about?

I have a lot to talk about! For starters, I've been doing this programming
gig now for nearly 15 years and feel that I have a few pearls of wisdom that
are worth sharing. Also, as I continue to accumulate more random bits of
knowledge I have an innate desire to distill these into meaningful words to
share with others. With that said, my goal is that this blog will be more
than dull stodgy code samples but really a sampling of subjects that include
not only programming but also offers some insight into the human side of the 
profession. It's gonna be great, I promise. 

### Why every week?

Well for starters, I think I have a lot to say. Secondly, it feels like a
reasonable cadence which should be achievable. Further, my ultimate dream
is to write a book one day, and this will prepare me for the rigors and 
disciplines to actually undertake such a endeavor.

### So what's on the agenda for next week?

I hope to explore the first entry in a multi-part series: Go Concurrency.

So, until next week I hope everyone has an amazing 2016.

